The XML Configuration for Categories
by Roland Schweitzer — last modified 2011-04-14 08:23

History
    Action 	Performed by 	Date and Time 	Comment
    Publish 	Roland Schweitzer 	2011-04-14 08:23 	No comments.

You can organize the data in your LAS using categories of your choosing. For example you can group data by the institution the produced it, or by the temporal resolution of the data.
Categories

The LAS user interface is generated from a XML configuration file by the genLas.pl command; by default, the datasets and variables are displayed on two web pages. The first page displays a list of datasets, and each dataset contains a link to a page listing all of the variables in that dataset.

The version 6 release of LAS allows you to change the way datasets and variables are presented in the LAS user interface.You can change this presentation of datasets and variables by creating a XML categories file. The category file allows you to sort the variables into a set of hierarchical categories; each of these categories is displayed as a separate web page containing links to other categories or, at the bottom of the hierarchy, as a page listing the variables contained by the category.

The category file is generally included as an XML include as a child of the <lasdata> tag in the main LAS configuration file. For example, you would include the file category.xml in the LAS configuration file as follows:

<?xml version='1.0' ?>
   <!DOCTYPE spec SYSTEM "spec.dtd" [
   <!ENTITY category SYSTEM "categories.xml">
   ]>

<lasdata>
    &categories;
    ...

Suppose you have one dataset that contains a set of variables as below:

   
    <coads_climatology_cdf name="COADS Climatology" url="file:coads_climatology" doc="doc/coads_climatology.html">
     <variables>
      <airt name="Air Temperature" units="DEG C">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </airt>
      <speh name="Specific Humidity" units="G/KG">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </speh>
      <sst name="Sea Surface Temperature" units="Deg C">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </sst>
      <uwnd name="Zonal Wind" units="M/S">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </uwnd>
      <wspd name="Wind Speed" units="M/S">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </wspd>
      <vwnd name="Meridional Wind" units="M/S">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </vwnd>
      <slp name="Sea Level Pressure" units="MB">
       <link match="/lasdata/grids/coads_climatology_cdf_grid"/>
      </slp>
     </variables>

The default presentation of this XML in the user interface will consist of a page listing the datasets (COADS Climatology), and a page listing all of the variables in this dataset (Air Temperature, Specific Humidity, ...). Suppose you aren't interested in the temperature variables, and you want to display the wind and humidity variables variables as separate categories. The following XML categories file will accomplish this:

<las_categories>
    <category name="COADS">
        <category name="Windy COADS">
            <filter action="apply-variable" contains="Wind"/>
        </category>
        <category name="Sticky COADS">
            <filter action="apply-variable" contains="Humidity"/>
        </category>
    </category>
</las_categories>

The UI will contain three levels: the first page will list a COADS link; clicking on COADS will cause a page to be displayed listing Windy COADS and Sticky COADS; Windy COADS and Sticky COADS will link to pages listing all variables that contains the string "Wind" and "Humidity" respectively.

The <filter> tag is used to determine the set of variables that will be included in a category. A <filter> tag must have an action attribute that specifies whether the filter will be applied at the dataset level or the variable level. A <filter> tag can contain one of two optional attributes for string matching: the equals attribute causes a filter to include a variable or dataset only if the name of the variable or dataset exactly (case sensitive) matches the attribute value. The contains attribute will include a variable or dataset if the attribute value is a substring of the name of the variable or dataset. If neither of these attributes are present, then all datasets or variables will be included. A boolean AND of two filters occurs if a filter is contained in another filter. A boolean OR of two filters occurs if the filters are siblings in the XML tree. Examples:

<!-- Include all variables in all datasets in one category -->
<category name="The works">
    <filter action="apply-dataset"/>
</category>

<!--Same results as above because the action is only applied if equals or match attribute is present -->
<category name="The works">
    <filter action="apply-variable"/>
</category>

<!-- Include all variables from the datasets that exactly match the string "National League" -->
<category name="Teams in the National League">
    <filter action="apply-dataset" equals="National League"/>
</category>

<!-- Include all variables from the datasets that contain the string "West" -->
<category name="Teams in the National or American League West">
    <filter action="apply-dataset" contains="West"/>
</category>

<!-- Include all variables from the variables that contain the string "Yankees" -->
<category name="Most unpopular baseball team in Seattle">
    <filter action="apply-variables" contains="Yankees"/>
</category>

<!-- Include all variables from datasets with the name "American League West"  that contain variables
      with the substring "Mariners" -->
<category name="Most popular baseball team in Seattle">
    <filter action="apply-datasets" equals="American League West">
        <filter action="apply-variables" contains="Mariners"/>
    </filter>
</category>

<!-- Include all variables from datasets that:
      1) are in datasets that are named "American League East"  that have variables that contain "Yankees" OR
      2) are in datasets that are named "American League West" that have variables that contain "Rangers"
-->
<category name="Overpaid baseball teams">
    <filter action="apply-datasets" equals="American League East">
        <filter action="apply-variables" contains="Yankees"/>
    </filter>
    <filter action="apply-datasets" equals="American League West">
        <filter action="apply-variables" contains="Rangers"/>
    </filter>
</category>

The <category> tag controls the display of the categories in the user interface. Every category has a mandatory name attribute. The parent of the category will display this name as a link to the Web page generated for the category. Categories can contain other categories or filters. If a category has childen (i.e. contains other categories), then the page representing the category will contain links to the child categories of the current category. If a category has no children, then all variables that are remaining from any filters that have been applied will be displayed. For example, suppose we have a group of datasets where each dataset represents an American corporation and each variable represents a corporate officer of that corporation. The following XML:

 
<category name="Unethical corporate officers">
    <category name="By position">
        <category name="CEO">
            <filter action="apply-variable" equals="Kenneth Lay"/>
        </category>
    </category>
    <category name="By company">
	    <filter action="apply-dataset" contains="Enron">
	        <category name="Enron"/>
 	    </filter>
    </category>
</category>

will create a user interface with three levels of hierarchy. Since variables are only listed for categories that have no children, variables will be listed for the "CEO" and "Enron" categories. The "CEO" category will contain one variable (assuming that there is only one CEO named Kenneth Lay), and the "Enron" category will contain all of the corporate officers at Enron.
Category XML reference
Element 	Tag 	Required? 	Children 	Description
las_categories 	<las_categories> 	yes 	category+ 	Root element of XML category file
Category element

A category element can be either a branch with sub categories or a leaf -- a virtual dataset with its own filtered set of variables. A category should contain either categories or filters but not both. The optional 'include' files allow for an LAS installer to hand build html pages that provide the most attractive possible presentation of their data.

Element 	Tag 	Required? 	Children 	Description
category 	<category> 	no 	category*|filter* 	Defines a Web page in the display of datasets of variables
Attribute 	Type 	Required? 	Description
name 	string 	yes 	Display name of category.
doc 	string 	no 	URL of documentation associated with the category. This is functionally identical to the doc attribute associated with the dataset tag.
Filter elemen
Element 	Tag 	Required? 	Children 	Description
filter 	<filter> 	no 	category*|filter* 	Filters the set of variables applied to a leaf category node
Attribute 	Type 	Required? 	Description
action 	string 	yes 	

Value must be apply-variable | apply-dataset

apply-variable applies an optional action to all variable names that match the specified conditions (see contains or equals attribute).

apply-dataset applies an optional cation to all dataset names that match the specified conditions (see contains or equals attribute).
contains 	string 	no 	Include the variable or dataset in the filter set if the attribute is a substring of the name of the variable or dataset. You cannot use both the contains attribute and the equals attribute.
equals 	string 	no 	Include the variable or dataset in the filter set if the attribute exactly matches the name of the variable or dataset. You cannot use both the contains attribute and the equals attribute.
category_include 	string 	no 	Template to replace standard dataset display for a category
variable_include 	string 	no 	Template to replace standard variable display for a variable
constrain_include 	string 	no 	Template to replace standard constraint display for a constraint associated with a variable
category_include_header 	string 	no 	Template to include immediately beneath the help information for dataset/category
variable_include_header 	string 	no 	Template to include immediately beneath the help information for variable
constrain_include_header 	string 	no 	Template to include immediately beneath the help information for constraint associated with selected variable